docs: New Console features for 23.1 (#1206)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/manage/security/console/plain.mdx

---
title: Plain Login Setup
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="GitHub SSO Authentication in Redpanda Console | Redpanda Docs"/>

>     <meta name="description" content="Configure authentication with external identity providers such as Google, GitHub or Okta in Redpanda Console."/>

Author: ```suggestion
    <meta name="description" content="Allow your users to authenticate with a predefined
username and password. Plan logins are the easiest way to set up a login-protected deployment of Redpanda Console. However,
plan logins are not secure, and Redpanda recommends them only for development environments or demo purposes."/>
```

</head>

:::info
This feature requires an [Enterprise license](../../../../get-started/licenses). To upgrade, contact [Redpanda sales](https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda?section=enterprise-cloud).
:::

> Configuring Redpanda Console with this plain login provider allows your users to authenticate with a predefined

Author: ```suggestion
Configuring Redpanda Console with a plain login provider allows your users to authenticate with a predefined
```

> username-password combination. This is the easiest way to setup a login protected Console deployment. However,
> it is only recommended for development environments or demo purposes, as it's not secure.

Author: ```suggestion
username and password. Plain logins are the easiest way to set up a login-protected deployment of Redpanda Console. However,
plain logins are not secure, and Redpanda recommends them only for development environments or demo purposes.
```

> ## Configure plain provider with user credentials

Author: ```suggestion
## Configure the plain login provider with user credentials
```

```yaml
login:
  enabled: true

  # jwtSecret is the secret key you must use to sign and encrypt the JSON 
  # web token used to store user sessions. This secret key is 
  # critical for the security of Redpanda Console's authentication and 
  # authorization system. Use a long, complex key with a combination of 
  # numbers, letters, and special characters. While you must use a minimum of 
  # 10 characters, Redpanda recommends using more than 32 
  # characters. For additional security, use a different secret key for 
  # each environment. jwtSecret can be securely generated with the following 
  # command: LC_ALL=C tr -dc '[:alnum:]' < /dev/random | head -c32
  #
  # If you update this secret key, any users who are 
  # already logged into Redpanda Console will be logged out and will have 
  # to log in again.
  jwtSecret: ""

  plain:
    enabled: true

>     # Credentials are username/password combinations that you can use to log-in.

Author: ```suggestion
    # Credentials are username and password combinations that you can use to log in.
```

>     # By default, each user has no permissions and thus you have to bind a role
>     # to the user. Read the following section about binding roles to learn more.

Author: ```suggestion
    # By default, each user has no permissions. You must bind a role to the user.
```

    credentials:
      - username: "jane"
        password: "some-other-secret-password"
      - username: "john"
        password: "some-secret-password"
```

## Define role-bindings

> When you set up the plain login login, you can bind users to roles. Following is a sample

Author: ```suggestion
By default, each user has no permissions. You must bind a role to the user. After you've configured the plain login provider, you can bind users to roles. The following is an example:
```

role binding:

```yaml
roleBindings:
  - metadata:
      name: Platform Ops
    subjects:
      - kind: user
        provider: Plain
        name: jane
    roleName: admin
  - metadata:
      name: Software Engineers
    subjects:
      - kind: user
        provider: Plain
        name: john
    roleName: editor
```

> Refer to [Authorization](../authorization) to learn more about managing user permissions via RBAC.

Author: ```suggestion
Refer to [Authorization](../authorization) to learn more about managing user permissions with RBAC.
```
